What is HTML? HTML stands for Hypertext Markup Language. It is the
standard markup language used to create the structure and content of
websites and web applications. HTML is the foundation of web development
and is used to define the structure and layout of a web page by
employing a system of markup tags.

HTML uses a set of elements, represented by tags, to describe the
different parts of a web page\'s content. These elements can define
headings, paragraphs, images, links, forms, tables, and various other
components that make up a web page.

A typical HTML document starts with a \<!DOCTYPE\> declaration that
specifies the version of HTML being used, followed by the \<html\>
element, which serves as the root element. Inside the \<html\> element,
you\'ll typically find the \<head\> and \<body\> elements.

The \<head\> element contains metadata about the document, such as the
page title, links to stylesheets and scripts, and other information
that\'s not directly displayed on the page. The \<body\> element
contains the visible content of the web page, such as text, images, and
interactive elements.

HTML is complemented by other technologies like CSS (Cascading Style
Sheets) and JavaScript to enhance the presentation and functionality of
web pages. CSS is used to control the layout, formatting, and styling of
the HTML elements, while JavaScript enables dynamic and interactive
features.

Web browsers interpret HTML documents and render them into the visual
web pages that users see and interact with. As HTML is continuously
evolving, the latest version is HTML5, which brings new elements,
attributes, and features to make web development more powerful and
efficient.

What is the latest version of HTML? HTML5 is the fifth and most current
version of the Hypertext Markup Language and is widely used for creating
and structuring web content. It introduced many new features, elements,
and attributes, making it more powerful and versatile compared to its
predecessors.

HTML5 brought significant improvements to web development, such as
better support for multimedia elements (audio and video), canvas for 2D
graphics rendering, semantic elements for improved document structure,
native form validation, and support for local storage, among other
enhancements.

What are the basic building blocks of an HTML document? The basic
building blocks of an HTML document include the following essential
elements:

\<!DOCTYPE\> Declaration: This is the very first element at the
beginning of an HTML document and specifies the document type and
version of HTML being used. For HTML5, the declaration is simply
\<!DOCTYPE html\>.

\<html\> Element: The \<html\> element serves as the root element of the
HTML document. It wraps all the other elements and indicates that the
content inside is written in HTML.

\<head\> Element: The \<head\> element contains metadata about the
document, such as the page title, character encoding, links to external
resources (stylesheets, scripts, etc.), and other information that\'s
not directly displayed on the web page.

\<title\> Element: The \<title\> element is placed inside the \<head\>
section and defines the title of the web page. It appears in the
browser\'s title bar or tab and is crucial for search engine
optimization (SEO).

\<body\> Element: The \<body\> element contains the visible content of
the web page, including text, images, links, forms, and other
interactive elements. Everything displayed on the web page is within the
\<body\> element.

\<h1\>, \<h2\>, \<h3\>, \<h4\>, \<h5\>, \<h6\> Elements: These elements
are used to define headings of different levels on the web page. \<h1\>
is the highest level (main heading), and \<h6\> is the lowest level
(subheading).

\<p\> Element: The \<p\> element represents a paragraph of text. It is
used to structure and group text content into paragraphs.

\<a\> Element: The \<a\> element creates hyperlinks or anchor links that
allow users to navigate to other web pages or resources. It is commonly
used to link to other pages, files, or sections within the same page.

\<img\> Element: The \<img\> element is used to embed images on the web
page. It requires a src attribute that specifies the image file\'s URL.

\<ul\> and \<li\> Elements: These elements are used to create unordered
lists. The \<ul\> element represents the list container, and each list
item is defined by the \<li\> element.

\<ol\> and \<li\> Elements: These elements are used to create ordered
lists. The \<ol\> element represents the ordered list container, and
each list item is defined by the \<li\> element.

\<div\> Element: The \<div\> element is a generic container used to
group content and apply styles or layout to sections of the web page.

These basic building blocks form the structure and content of an HTML
document, allowing web browsers to interpret and render the web page
correctly for users to view and interact with.

What are the differences between HTML and XHTML? HTML (Hypertext Markup
Language) and XHTML (Extensible Hypertext Markup Language) are both
markup languages used for creating web pages and structuring web
content. However, there are some significant differences between them:

Syntax:

HTML: HTML has a more lenient syntax and allows certain constructs like
unclosed tags and attribute values without quotes. XHTML: XHTML follows
a stricter syntax that adheres to XML rules. All elements and attributes
must be properly closed, and attribute values must be enclosed in
quotes. Case Sensitivity:

HTML: HTML is case-insensitive for both element names and attribute
names. XHTML: XHTML is case-sensitive for both element names and
attribute names. All names must be in lowercase. Parsing:

HTML: HTML is often parsed using error-recovery mechanisms, which can
lead to inconsistencies in rendering across different browsers. XHTML:
XHTML is parsed as XML, which means it requires well-formed and valid
markup. This leads to more predictable rendering across browsers. Error
Handling:

HTML: HTML allows certain errors and ambiguities in the code and tries
to interpret the document as best as possible. XHTML: XHTML requires
strict adherence to XML rules, and any errors will cause the document to
be considered invalid. Mime Types:

HTML: HTML documents are served with the \"text/html\" MIME type. XHTML:
XHTML documents are served with the \"application/xhtml+xml\" MIME type.
Self-Closing Tags:

HTML: In HTML, some elements can be written without a closing tag, such
as \<br\>, \<img\>, and \<input\>. XHTML: In XHTML, all elements must
have a closing tag, and self-closing tags should end with a forward
slash, like \<br /\>, \<img /\>, and \<input /\>. JavaScript Handling:

HTML: HTML allows inline event handlers like onclick and onmouseover.
XHTML: In XHTML, inline event handlers are discouraged in favor of using
unobtrusive JavaScript. Browser Compatibility:

HTML: HTML documents may render differently across various browsers due
to leniency in parsing. XHTML: XHTML documents have more consistent
rendering across browsers due to strict XML parsing. It\'s worth noting
that while XHTML was an attempt to bring stricter rules to web markup,
it has become less popular over time. HTML5, the latest version of HTML,
incorporates many features from XHTML and XML while retaining the
forgiving nature of HTML, making it more widely adopted in modern web
development.
